From Hansel minutes.com. It's
Hansel minutes, a weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
is Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
91 reported live Thursday, December 3rd, 2009.
Support for Hanselman. This is
provided by Tellerik rad controls,
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com. In
this episode, Scott talks with
Nathan Brooksy is with the
solver foundation team Scott Hanselman.
And this is another episode
of Hansel minutes, and I'm
on campus at Microsoft here
in Redmond, Washington, wandering around
the halls and talking to
lots of interesting people. And
I'm actually sitting down here
with Nathan bricks. He is
with the solver foundation team.
That sounds like a really
complicated team, the solver foundation
team. What is the solver
finishing team? So the, the
solid foundation team has been
around for a few years
and we had our first
release last year. What we
are is a basically a.net
platform for modeling and solving
like planning, scheduling, and optimization
problems. So we build a
library that.net programmers can use
to model and solve optimization
problems. Okay. So what is
an optimization problem? Well, there
you find them all over
the place. Actually. There's lots
of interesting examples. For example,
suppose you are an investor
and you're trying to take
your, take your money and
spread it across some different
investments in a way that
will give you a nice
return, but not be too
risky. That's an example of
an optimization problem. You have
a goal in mind, but
you also have some, some
constraints that you're operating other
under another one might be
maybe you're a scheduling a
conference, or maybe you're scheduling
your classes at school. That's
another example. You have some,
some goals in mind, maybe
not to get up too
early or to have your
classes run consecutively. And also
some constraints like you can't
go to two classes at
the same time, for example.
So you find optimization problems
in finance and scheduling. Like
there are many supply chain
problems. For example, you're trying
to get products from, from
place to place at low
cost. And so on. Is
the travelers the classic traveling
salesman problem, a optimization problem?
Absolutely. It's, that's a classic
example of a actually a
difficult optimization problem. There's there's
many different kinds. Some optimization
problems are solved pretty easily,
and there are others like
the traveling salesman problem where
the number of possible solutions
blows up exponentially with the
number of cities in, in
the problem. And so you
have to resort to some
pretty heavy duty techniques to
find solutions to those sorts
of problems. So w with
all due respect to your
team, it's probably fair to
say that the, the chances
of the listener having heard
of this library is probably
a low, would you say
that this is not a
mainstream, like bump into a.net
developer on the street? Hey,
yeah. You're checking out the
solver foundation stuff. Oh yeah,
Totally. Yeah, exactly. It's a,
we're, we're a new team
where up and coming, and
it is something that traditionally
in the past is optimization
has kind of been hidden
away from, from the general
public in part, because it's,
it's been pretty, pretty hard
to get your hands on
and pretty difficult to actually
use in a real live
production applications. One of our
goals that it's trying to
make it more accessible for
people, Then I would take
it. So if I would
take even farther to say,
is it fair to say
that the average dominant developer
doesn't know about your library
and your group, but they
very likely have one of
these problems and they may
not even realize it. Absolutely.
They may have been solving.
It was just a series
of four loops and magic.
Absolutely, absolutely. Yeah. Programmers come
up with, come across these
problems all the time. And
as you say, many times,
what you do is maybe
you will just dream up
something on the spot or
more you'll, you'll do a
little, do a little search
or maybe a, you know,
you'll crack open your, one
of your textbooks from college,
one of your algorithms textbooks
or something, and dig in
there. But of course that's
not what we do for
many other tasks that we
have as programmers like sorting,
you know, most of us,
hopefully if we need to
sort some numbers or we're
not going to go and
try to write our own
sorting algorithm, we're going to
go, we're going to understand
that there are libraries out
there that help us to
do that. And they've been
well tested. And so on.
We go to that. So
what our goal is to
try to try to make
this, these really powerful tools
accessible to people. And it
does take, it takes time
to sort of build up,
you know, education about what
it is that we're doing,
and also to help people
to understand the ways in
which this could be used.
Cause it is very broadly
applicable. Okay. Okay. So this
is something that I download
and it's a series of
improv DLS. That's right. In
fact, it's one. So you
can go to solver, foundation.com
and there's an ex free
express edition, which has all
the functionality that so you
can download it. It's a
managed code DLL. So for
example, if you're a, a
C sharp programmer, you can
add a reference to this,
all our foundation DLL into
your project. And then you
can follow along with the,
you know, the samples that
get downloaded as well, and
then start, you know, trying
it out, building some models
and solving them. Okay. So
building some models and sergeants,
that was kind of my
next question. Like, like this
is a group that creates
this with this one, this
one DLL. So it must
be complicated. I mean, it
must be a lot of
magic in there and it
must scale from very small,
basic samples up to pretty
intense. Could you even multi
machine? So That's actually a
great question right now. You
can't do multi machine solves.
I mean, we won't do
it for it. You'd have
to chop it up yourself.
You have to chop it
up yourself. But we, what
we do do right now
is use all of the
cores, all the processors on
your machine. So if you
have a problem, which is
particularly difficult, based on solar
foundation, we'll do an analysis
of the problem and chop
it up into pieces and
use all of the processes
on your machine to solve
it. And that's something that
even someone who maybe knows
a lot about the algorithms
and the solution techniques, they
might not know how to
do that analysis and make
use of all the computational
power on the machine, as
you know, these days, pretty
much any machine that you'll
pick up these days has
several cores. I mean, it's,
it's, it's fairly trivial to
spin up a background thread,
right. And when people think
about multiprocessing, they might think,
well, yeah, I've got this
and I've got my background
thread, but even with something
like the new parallel extensions
and the stuff that, you
know, Steven Tobin, those guys
are doing around the PFX
still too, even if I
knew the algorithm and I
understood parallel extensions, it would
still be nontrivial, right. A
multi proc multi-core solver. Exactly.
Exactly. So what kind of
data structures am I creating?
Is this a, is this
a declarative model where I
described the problem in a
series of data structures and
then hand it to you?
That's, that's exactly right. It's
our focus, what we want
users of solid foundation to
be able to do is
just think about what their
problem is rather than how
to solve it. So it
is a declarative, a declarative
framework. And so the representation
of the problem that you
want to solve in solid
foundation is called a model.
And so the model has
just a few building blocks.
So it has, for example,
a goal, like describe some
goals earlier, for example, find
a minimum risk investment portfolio.
I think that's a good
example we can use to
walk people through this. So
there's, there's an example of
a goal and that's the
thing your, it could be
a business objective. How do
I describe that? I mean,
it's easy to say in
pros, but how do I
describe a goal like minimum
risks In code? Got it.
Well, what solver foundation offers
is a, basically a toolbox
and expression language that lets
you define these. So define
these goals essentially, you know,
mathematically or algebraically. So you,
in this example, we're talking
about if it's a minimum
risk portfolio, I might want
to look at the, the
risk associated, the correlation between
two different types of investments.
So like stocks and bonds,
and I might want to
multiply those sort of risk
factors with the amount of
money that I have decided
to allocate to a particular
investment category. And so if
I like, for example, 30%,
30% of my money, I
might want to allocate to
bonds. And so I multiply
that with these risk factors
and I add them all
up and that gives me
a, an expression which represents
the total amount of risk
in the portfolio. So solver
foundation has it lets you
use this, you know, standard
like plus and minus and
times and those sorts of
things. And it will as
well as adding some additional
constructs that let you combine
these building blocks into goals.
So thinking, and forgive me
if I'm speaking to you
as I'm a more like
a four year old or
five-year-old here, but you know,
trying to get the, get
down to the basics of
this is this like a,
when I was doing algebra
and doing multivariable solving where
it's like, yeah, it's easy
to solve for X now
solve for X, Y, and
Z where you're trying to
minimize Z. Right. Whereas is
that an example? That is
definitely that's an example. And
yeah, So I've got a
series of goals that I
want to meet. And then
like in the, my X,
Y Z example, I really
want to solve for something
that meets a goal with
some constraints. So it's not
just about finding a goal,
but it's about finding the
goal within the constraints. And
is it those constraints that
make the problem difficult? Cause
I want the listener to
understand like the ones that
are still awake at this
point, because we're talking math,
right. That this is, this
is hard because to find
the optimum, That's the goal
that's right. That there are
it's it's, it's, it's extremely
complicated, but that's absolutely, it's
true to say that when
you combine the goals with
having to, you know, meet
some of these constraints, you
have a, you can oftentimes
have a very difficult problem.
I mean, we can, if
we get to go back
to the traveling salesman example,
Let me look for the
listeners who may not be
familiar with that problem. Explain
the basics of the traveler.
The idea is that there's
a salesman who is going
out selling products in different
cities. Like let's say five
cities and the salesman wants
to drive around to the
visit each of the five
cities, but he or she
wants to do so visit
each one of the cities
once, but minimize the amount
of distance that they're driving.
Right? So they want to
hit every city. Cause they're
a salesman. They don't want
to visit cities twice because
that's a waste of gas.
And then they've got multiple
ways to get to a
city because there's multiple roads,
right? How do you find,
how do you visit every
single city minimizing the space
and the number of trips
per city, right? So if
you break it down, right,
the goal is minimize the
travel distance and a constraint.
We just listen. We just
to visit a city twice,
can't visit a city twice,
need to visit every city
at once. Seems simple, seems
simple, simple. And you can
basically, if you write down
that prose description of the
problem, you can sort of
underline, Oh, here's a constraint,
here's a goal. And so
on each one of those
components is not too difficult
to understand right now you
put it all together and
you try to say now,
okay, now what's the optimal
right to, or what's the
best tour sequence of cities
to visit. That is an
extremely complicated problem. And that's
an interesting example because that's
a case where coming up
with a, a solution that
meets all of the constraints
is really easy, right? I
mean, if I say the,
the cities are Atlanta, Boston,
Chicago, Dallas, you can just
eyeball it. You can come
up with all sorts of
solutions, Right. But now take
the traveling sales problem, traveling
salesman problem, and make it
a multi-city 20, 30 cities
situation where you've got a
truck of produce and you've
got to get the apples
to Dallas before they rot.
Exactly. Then things get a
little more interesting. Exactly. Okay.
That was that the kind
of thing that you're trying
to solve. Absolutely. And so
the way I think the
beauty of what we're offering
with solver foundation is you
can say you start with
a traveling salesman problem when
you're able to list out
the goals and the constraints
and so on. Well, now
you can add, now you
can add more constraints to
the problem, for example, the
produce. Okay. So once you've
described the model correctly, so
if I understand correctly, the
model I would describe would
be the graph of all
the potential connections between these
different cities, right? That's the
declaration of the, the, the
map in this case, a
graph of paths and then
the weights of those paths
indicating a travel distance and
things like that. And then
the constraints are the rules
that we just described. I
can add on my own
custom rules later, I can
run the problem multiple times
with different rules. It's all
right. With different rules or
with different data, because the
way you would describe the
traveling salesman problem and solve
our foundation, say that we
started with five cities, a
simple problem. Well, you in
solar foundation, there is a,
for each expression. So you
could say for each city
and then an expression, which
says visit the city exactly
once. Right? So that, that
doesn't depend that expression doesn't
depend on there being five
cities, right? So I can
scale up the problem size.
You use different data, larger
data sets. For example, in
my model, doesn't change. And
just as you said, I
can now add new constraints
or change the constraints or
change my goal. And I
don't have to, it's a
much simpler process. I don't
have to start from scratch.
Hey everybody, this is Scott
coming at you from another
place in time. No doubt.
You'll probably bump into testing
tasks now, and then, and
your work and, you know,
writing functional tests is probably
not your favorite thing. It's
kind of difficult. It takes
time and the results can
be dubious. Well, get ready
to start liking tests. Thanks
to Tellerik with the, the
new whereby testing framework building
web automation test is a
breeze. You've got code automation
with advanced asp.net Ajax, and
several applications. You can write
a single test, have it
executed against multiple browsers at
once. You'd benefit from a
rich API there's link support
integration with visual studio unit
testing, also in unit X
unit and MB unit, not
to mention the free rappers
for Telerik rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax, and several
light, all shipping with Telerik's
new testing tool. One of
the best features, the webinar
testing framework, which is developed
by art of test is
it's absolutely free. Freddie got
hooked on web testing framework,
start using it right away,
go to tellerik.com for more
info. Thanks a lot. Okay.
So, so three questions just
popped into my head and
they'll kind of all make
sense because they're all related
with solver foundation at the
hub. I'm visualizing data coming
in, data, going out and
then data in the form
of constraints, kind of coming
in the middle. And I'm
wondering in what formats can
I bring this data in?
And how am I doing
that? Like if I've got,
you know, a million records
of something that's in a
database that represents some model,
and then I've got, I
want to make this accessible
to my business users. So
I want to plug them
into maybe Excel or some
UI of some kind. They're
going to describe some constraints.
And then I want the
result to come out as
a PDF, right? How far
does pro foundation solver foundation
stretch in each of these
directions versus just letting.net and
the various libraries that I
have available do that work.
Got it. So at the
very top, I said, solid
foundation was a platform. And
I said that word first
single deal. That's a big
word for a single DLL.
What we want to do
is let.net do what it
does well, and we are
not in the, we're not
in the business. For example,
of writing out PDF files
or reading from databases, what
we want to use. We
want to take advantage of
all the other good stuff
within.net to do that. So
what we do in solid
foundation is we have a
set of data, binding APIs
and interfaces that you can
use. So for example, if
you have a database that
you want to read your
data from, you can use
whatever technique you like and.net,
for example, you know, you
could use some link expressions
to bring down the data
and find it directly. I
asked the question a little
bit, selfishly, because I used
to, before I worked at
Microsoft, I work in banking.
Yeah. All of our data
lived in mainframes and we
would do bill payment things.
And we had a thing
that was called least cost
routing, which I'm starting to
realize that we solved a
problem that would have, we
could have actually kind of
done a little coding by
subtraction, which would mean deleting
our stuff and using your
stuff. At least cost routing
is I've got a bunch
of banks and I've got
a bunch of payments and
a bunch of people want
to pay a bunch of
other people. I have relationships
with some banks. It costs
me this much to pay
that guy via you or
via you or via Swift.
This least cost routing is
the act of pay of,
of paying all of the
different bills to all the
different people, via all the
different banks, given all their
different prices in the way
that would cost people, the
least amount of money. And
we charged people, but Jillian's,
that's the official term of
dollars for the feature that
is least cost routing. And
that is, sounds like a
classic silver foundation problem. It
is Absolutely a classic problem.
And I had to call
those guys because I don't
work there anymore. Well, and
it's funny because you find
this over and over again
in many different industries. I
didn't recognize it though. Yeah,
exactly. And that's the, the,
the pro and the con
of, of working on a
team like software foundation is
we are building something which
is very general purpose. And
so one of the challenges
that we have as a
team is to really have
good examples and good case
studies and things of that
that give people the inspiration,
help people understand all the
different ways that this could
be used. How do you
get the word out though?
I mean, there's not a
foundation solver solver foundation, rather
a evangelist. No, I guess
I'm as close as you
get, right. You're a dev,
right? Yeah. I write code.
I'm passionate about, you know,
optimization in this stuff. And
I do want to see
people using it. We don't
have a TV ads. We
don't do, do you charge
for it? We do. There's
a, there's an express version.
There's a standard version and
there's an enterprise version. And
the difference between the three
is, and that express version,
which is free, we do
cap the problem size. So
you wouldn't be able to
put Amelion constraints. Right. I
wouldn't be able to solve
my bill payment thing without
paying somebody. Exactly. Nor would
you be able to redistribute
it in an application? Because
like we said, talked about
before, it's just a DLL.
And so you could imagine
this working in an asp.net
application or a silver light
application or a, Oh, wait
a second. So I can
run this in silver Lake.
You cannot well not, Excuse
me now. Well, you can,
what you could do is
write a backing WCF web
service. Okay. But this runs
on the two that runs
on the desktop CLR. Correct.
So I can run it
in asp.net or WinForms or
WPF or whatever, you know,
what's actually brings up a
very interesting question all this
time. We're sitting here talking
about managed code, but isn't
optimization problems. And these kinds
of solutions typically solved in
C plus plus Typically they
have been that's right. That's
right. And a solver foundation
is the first purely managed
code.net solution for these, these
sorts of problems. So no
one's really ever tried that
before. And there were some
doubts as to whether the
performance would be The right.
Well, surely, surely it must
be slower. It is quite
competitive actually. Yeah. So competitive
is, I'm not speaking for
these, all of our foundation
team, but competitive is code
and Microsoft, for sure. Not
slower. So I have to
be careful about it just
because we don't benchmark and
so on, but, but it's
not like 10 times slower.
No, no, no. We, we
are solving really large scale
industrial strength. Can you give
a sense of how big
the data sets that you
can work with us? The,
I threw the term million
constraints around, Oh, you weren't
just saying I wasn't kidding.
There are real problems that
our foundation is solving right
now that involve millions of
constraints. And do I need,
do I need millions of
processors and millions of megabytes
of memory? You don't need
millions. You need a, I
mean, I need a beefy
machine, need a beefy machine,
but we're talking about a
single multi-pronged machine with a
lot of memory, but Like,
like a 64 bit like
eight gigs kind of a
thing. Yeah. Is this typically
a thing I would want
to do with a 64
bit with, you know, a,
a.net app that has compiled
for 60? No, I need
more than two gigs. No,
you don't. I mean, I,
of course it depends on
the size of the problem,
but you know, I routinely,
you know, I have my,
my laptop, which is, it's
a nice laptop, but it's
nothing too special and I
have no problems running, running
models on, on that. So,
so back to the point
about C plus plus and
C sharp, I mean, as
I understand it, you've been
in this space of optimization
problems for a number of
years. You probably must've coded
these before.net in what languages
did you use before? Yeah.
Yeah. Well, this is what
I did before I came
to Microsoft and I was
a, a Unix guy and
a Linux guy did a
lot of coding on Solaris
and HP machines and in
a bit of Linux and,
you know, the languages of
choice were Fortran C and
C plus plus. And so
writing I'd written solvers before
I came to Microsoft. And
then once I came on
the software foundation team, it
was, you know, switching over
to C sharp. And so
I've had quite a bit
of experience trying to solve
the same sorts of problems,
but using different, different languages.
And does the language, does
the language getting your way
or is this because all
of these are kind of
C style languages, do you
think about that? I mean,
there's a lot of talk
about things like Earl Lang
and different, different languages that
are not classic CS titles,
style languages. I mean, have
you, can you, can I
use F sharp in the,
Yeah, absolutely. In fact, a
couple of things. One is
that there's a lot of
people in the financial industry,
like quantitative analysts and so
on who really love F
sharp. And we're finding a
lot of interest from people
who want to use F
sharp and solid foundation. And
so in fact, one of
the samples that we ship
is an F sharp sample.
Cool. So it's totally appropriate
to do that. Oh, absolutely.
And I don't have to
feel, I don't have to
see any C-sharp to do
it, I guess. No, no.
You can use the dotnet
language of your choice. And
there are plenty of F
sharp samples, vb.net samples and
so on. So, so what
are kind of some of
the pros and cons that
you've found in writing silver
foundation in C-sharp versus writing
it in C, C plus
plus, cause I kind of
feel like in an old
school, Microsoft, maybe a couple
of years ago, they might've
forced you to write it
in C plus plus and
done an interrupt layer. Right,
right. But it sounds like
you, you know, there was
some kind of a tiny
victory or big victory maybe
when you, when you guys
convinced the powers that be
to do this thing managed
and Right. Right. Is that
true? Absolute that's though. That
is true. And it's really
been the conventional wisdom within
this has been a, actually
a long running argument that
even predates C-sharp. So if
you go back 20 years
ago, there were people who
were saying C plus plus
is too slow. You need
to, you need to do
it in Fortran because of
the way you can because
of array, access and so
on and so forth. So
as time goes on, there's
always the same sorts of
arguments, but the languages change
a C-sharp. I mean, I
have to say, I love
writing solid foundation code in
C sharp. The, the argument
that you will get is
really the performance argument. People
will say with, with managed
code with C sharp because
of, you know, compiling it
into IUL because of the
garbage collection, because of the
fact that you're not coding
as close to the machine,
as you are in C
plus plus that you will
never be able to have
an acceptable level of performance
or you'll never be fast
enough. I mean, that's, that's
the primary, you know, argument
that is made and, you
know, there is an essential,
I mean, there's an essential
truth to that. I mean,
there is more stuff going
on. Yeah. There are, for
example, there are array, array,
bounds checks that happen and
all sorts automatically, automatically that
you have no control over
in C-sharp, which you don't
need to do well, if
you know how big your
array is, if you know
how big your is, and
you do everything correctly, you
don't need to do. And,
and C plus plus, and,
you know, with the type
of code that I'm writing,
it is very computationally intense.
There are lots of tight,
four loops where you're doing,
you know, you're adding, multiplying,
dividing numbers. And so on,
You're floating up at this
higher layer of abstraction. I
mean, even though C-sharp and
CNC plus supposed to look
like similar languages, fundamentally, there's
several layers between you and
the metal. That's right. And
you're effectively a business logic
programmer, right. Even though you're
doing intense computational stuff. Yeah.
And, and the CLR is
there to provide you comfort.
And the comfort it provides
you is via, you know,
silent bounce checking and automatic
garbage collection. And when you're
in a tight loop or
deepen a series of tight
loops, wouldn't you wish that
you could just turn it
off, like it wouldn't you
want to put a block
like the unsafe block or
something, and just say, don't
worry about it. I got
this for a minute and
eke out that extra 3%
or that extra 4% of
a performance, or do you
just not worry about that
kind of stuff? Well, it's,
I guess what I'm trying
to understand if your philosophy
around micro optimization, My philosophy
is that you really need
to take a more holistic
view, a more top level
view of the problem, because
there, yeah, there are sections
of the code where there
are these tight four loops.
And in those particular section,
as you're writing them, you
might say to yourself, ah,
I wish I could just
go unsafe and skip these
length checks and so on,
but what you need to,
you need to take a
step back and think about
how users are using this
code. Like we were just
a couple minutes ago, we
were talking about expressing these
constraints and these goals and
so on and the declarative
language and so on. And
there's a lot of steps
that need to occur to
solve a problem, right? So
you need to, you need
to get the data, you
need to do some preprocessing
and analysis of the problem.
And then, so these, these
loops that you're staring at
when you're writing code, they
may seem extremely important at
the time, but will you
re what you really need
to do is go back
and measure and, and see
what the real impact is.
And what we have found
is that if you are,
if you write good, solid,
careful managed code, and you're
thinking about performance as you're
writing the C sharp code,
the, the differences, not generally
speaking, not that great in
the, yeah, you need, you
need to look at the
total system performance. I think
the trick is that programmer
type I'll make a generalization
here, the kind of personality
that makes an excellent programmer
is the, almost sometimes the
kind that overthinks things. So
like you just said, and
if you think carefully about
performance, and I thought to
myself, and if you overthink
appropriately about performance, you know,
it's like, when do you
stop? At what point do
you back off? And I
think you've made points to
me before the idea that
you could fight for that
last 2% and then lose
it on a single disc,
right? Yes. Yeah. That's absolutely
the case. It's hundreds of
times more, I don't know
the exact numbers, but it's
hundreds of times billions and
billions, billions and billions. Yeah.
Yeah. It's a big deal.
I mean, we're talking about
you, you fight for that
a hundred milliseconds and you
lose it because somebody swapped
you to a different core
or Whatever. Right. So I
think a key is to
understand how this piece of
code is functioning in the
larger system and measure and
measure and measure on the,
on the scenarios that, that
matter. And do you need
to have some goals in
mind? How fast does it
need to be, right. Yeah,
exactly. If you stop, when,
if you don't have a
goal and your goal is
just make it faster, we'll
then you'll never be done.
Right. And we all want
our code to run as
fast as possible, if nothing
else, just as a point
of pride. Right. But we
don't have, there's only so
many hours in the day
and you need to just
establish some goals of like,
well, how fast to this
does this need to be?
Otherwise you'll never be, you'll
never get any, Is profiling
a big part of what
you guys do. I mean,
is that like fundamental to
the way you guys write
code? It is. I mean,
there's like, there's a couple
of things we do. And
so the first thing is
we think about what our
goals are. We think about
the scenarios and we regularly
just measure the performance, like
stop, watch time without a
profiler, just to make sure.
Cause sometimes very innocent little
things can, Oh really? So
when you say stop, watch
your time. You're not kidding.
You're like saying, you know,
this, this a series of
tests should run in two
seconds and then suddenly we
made a change. It runs
in four. Yeah. So you're
saying you're actually measuring that.
Do you have like constraints
set up in a continuous
integration system such that it
would fail and you would
be alerted? Yes. Every night,
every night, actually our testing
team is fantastic every night,
thousands of models and test
cases run and we measure
the performance and when you
compare it to a baseline
and these red flags pop
up, if the performance degrades
too much. Okay. So he'll
performance regression is a real
problem in some that you're,
you have quality Gates to
figure that stuff out. Yes.
Yes. You would think that
in the solver foundation would
be the classic test driven
development example. Yeah. Do you
guys practice that here? Do
you like write models and
say, I know the solution
to this. Yes. Oh, absolutely.
So red, you know, red,
green testing, you know, red,
green refactor. And I think
it's so easy to want
to jump ahead because you're
so eager, but many times
what, what I will do
and other people on the
team will do is we'll
actually take a very small
problem and write it down
on paper and actually solve
it out, native wood. It,
you just work out the
numbers and, and, and that's,
that can be a very
first test case. Yeah. You
know, and then you can,
you know, build up slightly
larger examples and so on,
just start very simple and
then say, and in general,
I would say when you're
thinking about performance or trying
to evaluate whether I should
be using C plus plus
or C sharp or something,
it's good to just get
in the habit of writing,
very small, simple test programs
that, you know, sort of
be a scientist to try
to come up with a
hypothesis, But they've gotta be
valid tests because I think
that sometimes you always see
those, those examples that get
thrown around the blogs every
once in a while someone
takes your language and they
take another language and they
say, and I spun it
on million loops. And I,
you know, for, I equals
one, do a million and
that's completely inappropriate. I mean,
it doesn't make any sense
at all. I tell it
tells you that it can
do Exactly. So the key
is nobody knows more about
the, the scenario that you're
trying to address with your
code in you, the programmer.
So get, you know, learn
to learn to sort of
distill the essence of what
you're trying to do and
write a, a small set,
you know, representative program that,
that makes sense for you
for the particular project that
you're working on. Just sketch
it out, Right. Solve it
once and then solve it
in times. Yeah. Yeah. I
mean, and don't rely on
someone else's well, someone else
else's measurement measurement. Right. Do
do your own measurement. They're
measuring may not, don't rely
on anyone else's rule ruler.
Yeah. Measure it. Measure twice
code once. Absolutely. You know,
it's, it's much easier to
write that kind of basically
throw away code. It's just
sketch it out. There's so
many fewer things you need
to worry about. You know,
you just need to get
the right, the right pieces
in there and get it
working and get a sense.
You know, it doesn't need
to be down to the,
you know, down to the
millisecond. Exactly. Reflective of how
it will be in your
real production code. It needs
to be fair and close,
you know, Where can people
go again? You said it
was a solver foundation.com and
that'll redirect to somewhere Or
foundation.com. There's a little front
door website, and there's a
download link that will take
you to our MSDN site
where you can go and
grab. Very cool. Well, thank
you so much, Nathan Brooks for
chatting with me today about
salvia foundation and optimization. Yeah.
Thank you. My pleasure. This
has been another Episode of
Hansel minutes and we'll see
you again next week.